Add `NutsProcessor` for NUTS region aggregation (#569)
IAMconsortium/nomenclature: docs/api/nuts.rst

.. currentmodule:: nomenclature.processor.nuts

**NutsProcessor**
=================

The :class:`NutsProcessor` class provides automated aggregation of scenario data
across NUTS regions. It performs hierarchical aggregation in the following order:

1. NUTS3 → NUTS2
2. NUTS2 → NUTS1
3. NUTS1 → Country
4. Country → European Union (if ≥ 23 of the 27 EU member states are present)
5. Country + UK → European Union and United Kingdom (if the United Kingdom is also present)

The EU-level aggregations (steps 4-5) are only performed if the corresponding
target regions (``European Union`` and ``European Union and United Kingdom``) are
defined in the project's region codelist. If fewer than 23 EU member states are
present in the data, the EU aggregation is skipped silently.

The processor ensures that regional data is consistently aggregated and validated
according to the configured NUTS regions and variable code lists.

Consider the example below for configuring a project using NUTS aggregation.
The *nomenclature.yaml* in the project directory is as follows:

.. code:: yaml

  dimensions:
    - region
    - variable
  definitions:
    region:
      nuts:

>         nuts-3: [ AT ]

Reviewer: If my understanding of how the `NutsProcessor` works in conjunction with `nomenclature.yaml` is correct, this example is not ideal. By providing nuts-3, you aggregate to nuts-2, nuts-1 and finally country level. Since your `RegionCodeList` only contains nuts-3, you'll end up dumping the regions at the end of the nuts aggregation process (https://github.com/dc-almeida/nomenclature/blob/ebef5f3f183acdeb5c3477101901d2b34ad15e69/nomenclature/processor/nuts.py#L304-L305). You're running through the entire aggregation process just to dump the results again, with the exception of the final country level.
Maybe in the example here you could emphasize the fact that all the nuts levels that are desired to have in the final result have to be listed here.

The processor ensures that regional data is consistently aggregated and validated
according to the configured NUTS regions and variable code lists.

Consider the example below for configuring a project using NUTS aggregation.
The *nomenclature.yaml* in the project directory is as follows:

.. code:: yaml

  dimensions:
    - region
    - variable
  definitions:
    region:
      nuts:nuts:
      nuts-1: [ AT ]
      nuts-2: [ AT ]
      nuts-3: [ AT ]
      country: true
  processors:
    nuts: [ Model A ]

With this configuration, calling :func:`process` will automatically instantiate
and apply the :class:`NutsProcessor`.

.. code:: python

  import pyam
  from nomenclature import DataStructureDefinition, process

  df = pyam.IamDataFrame(data="path/to/file.csv")
  dsd = DataStructureDefinition("definitions")
  aggregated_data = process(df, dsd)

The data is aggregated for the applicable variables, creating the common region
``Austria`` (AT) from its constituent NUTS subregions.
The country-level regions must be defined in a region definition file or by setting
*definitions.region.country* as *true* in the configuration file
(see :ref:`adding-countries`).

.. note::

>    Only NUTS regions explicitly listed under ``definitions.region.nuts`` are present

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Only NUTS regions explicitly listed under ``definitions.region.nuts`` are added to
```

   in the output. The :class:`NutsProcessor` always aggregates through all levels,
   but intermediate levels are **dropped** from the result unless they are listed

>    in the configuration. In the example above, all three levels (NUTS1, NUTS2, NUTS3)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   but intermediate levels are **dropped** from the result unless if they are not listed
   in the configuration. In the example above, all three levels (NUTS1, NUTS2, NUTS3)
```

Author: Isn't this the opposite behaviour? If all NUTS levels are listed in the config file, then all are present in the final output?

Reviewer 2: Right, I wanted to remove the word "unless" as well. I was confused by the wording "dropped unless" and wanted to clarify...
